Description
===========

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate the ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. 
The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis.
The script extracts and cleans data generated by a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years.
Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) 
wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist.

Project Execution Steps
=======================

Download the file from the following URL
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

Unzip the zip file into your working directory.

Load the script file
source("run_analysis.R")

List the functions
ls()

Script Description
==================

After loading the source file, the List function will display the following 6 functions

f01.read.merge.datasets
f02.get.mean.std.data 
f03.replace.activities
f04.combine.all.data  
f05.calculate.average
f06.uci.har.main

The functions can be described as follows.

f01.read.merge.datasets 
	Merges the files (X_train.txt and X_test.txt, y_train.txt and y_test.txt, subject_train.txt and subject_test.txt)
	Returns a list of the three merged data frames (x, y and subject)
	
f02.get.mean.std.data(parameter x) 
    Read the features.txt file and filter out only the columns with the mean and standard deviation for each measurement
    Populate the column names
	Remove unwanted characters from the column names

f03.replace.activities(parameter y)
    Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the dataset (y)

f04.combine.all.data
    Combine mean and std values (x), activities (y) and subjects into one data frame using cbind.

f05.calculate.average
    Create a clean dataset with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject (using ddply) 

f06.uci.har.main
	This function calls the above 5 functions in sequence.
	It then writes the clean tidy data into a txt file (using write.table)

Script Execution
================

Please run the following function.

f06.uci.har.main()

Script Output
=============

During the execution of the script, a few messages will be displayed on the screen to notify the various stages of execution.
After execution the following output file will be created in the working directory.

uci_har_clean_data.txt

The code book describing the variables in the output file.

